packages/openai: Change default bucket_width and improve documentation and field descriptions (#12838)
elastic/integrations: packages/openai/_dev/build/docs/README.md

## Collection behavior

> There are two advanced configuration options for the OpenAI integration: "Initial interval" and "Bucket width".

Reviewer: Should we mention that users can change both of them if they wish?

Author: > There are two advanced configuration options for the OpenAI integration

I think this line already implies that?

> There are two advanced configuration options for the OpenAI integration: "Initial interval" and "Bucket width".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure the OpenAI integration, you can use one of the following options: Initial interval and Bucket width.
```
This is a possible rewording to consider. Also, "advanced" is confusing and implies that there are easier configuration options?

Author: Actually yes. See the screenshots:

---

Normal configurations (with folded "Advanced options"):
<img width="784" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-26 at 2 41 57 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/8bda8e2a-55bd-4ae2-a31b-34e9b0a623af" />

---

With unfolded "Advanced options":
<img width="614" alt="Screenshot 2025-02-26 at 2 42 05 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/efc34654-e06d-48b3-a072-d41f55855bb5" />

Reviewer 2: got it 👍 thanks for clarifying Subham

### Initial interval

- Controls the historical data collection window at startup
- Default value: 24 hours (`24h`)
- Purpose: Loads historical context when you first set up the integration

### Bucket width

- Controls the time-based aggregation of metrics (e.g., [bucket_width](https://platform.openai.com/docs/api-reference/usage/completions#usage-completions-bucket_width))
- Default: `1m` (1 minute)
- Options: `1m`, `1h`, `1d`
- Affects API request frequency and data resolution

#### Impact on data resolution

Granularity relationship: `1m` > `1h` > `1d`

> - `1m` buckets provide the highest resolution metrics, with data arriving nearly in real-time (1-minute delay)

Reviewer: @alaudazzi  should we change to "data arriving in near real-time"?

Reviewer 2: "data arriving in near real-time"
possible alternatives:
"data being ingested in near real-time"
"data coming in near real-time"

- `1h` buckets aggregate 60-minute intervals, with data arriving less frequently (1-hour delay)
- `1d` buckets consolidate full 24-hour periods, with data arriving daily (24-hour delay)

#### Storage considerations

Bucket width choice affects storage usage and data resolution:
- `1m`: Maximum granularity, higher storage needs
- `1h`: Aggregates 60 one-minute intervals

> - `1d`: Most efficient storage, suitable for long-term analysis

Reviewer: Should we add a note that if the user chooses '1d' they would have to wait for a day (or two?) until the first data can be seen on the dashboard?

Author: It's mentioned in the previous section:

> - `1h` buckets aggregate 60-minute intervals, with data arriving less frequently (1-hour delay)
> - `1d` buckets consolidate full 24-hour periods, with data arriving daily (24-hour delay)

See the text inside brackets.

Example: For 100 API calls to a particular model per hour:
- `1m` buckets: Up to 100 documents
- `1h` buckets: 1 aggregated document
- `1d` buckets: 1 daily document

#### API request impact

"Bucket width" and "Initial interval" directly affect API request frequency. Here's the technical breakdown:

OpenAI Usage API returns different numbers of buckets based on the bucket width:
- 1-minute buckets: 60 buckets per API call
- 1-hour buckets: 24 buckets per API call
- 1-day buckets: 7 buckets per API call

Formula for API calls:
1. Hours in initial interval × (60 minutes / bucket size) = Total buckets needed
2. Total buckets / buckets per API call = API calls per data stream
3. Total API calls = API calls per data stream × 8 data streams

Technical calculation example with 6-month initial interval and 1-minute buckets:
- "Initial interval" conversion: 6 months = (6 × 30 × 24) = 4,320 hours
- Total buckets needed: 4,320 hours × 60 minutes = 259,200 buckets
- API calls per stream: 259,200 / 60 = 4,320 calls
- Total API calls across 8 streams: 4,320 × 8 = 34,560 API calls

> Making 34,560 API calls in a brief period will likely trigger OpenAI's rate limits, resulting in API errors. When using a 1-minute bucket width, it's strongly recommended to set the "Initial interval" to a shorter duration - optimally 1 day - to ensure smooth performance. While our extensive testing demonstrates excellent results with a 6-month initial interval paired with a 1-day bucket width, the same level of success isn't achievable with 1-minute or 1-hour bucket widths due to OpenAI's API rate limitations. For optimal results when collecting historical data over extended periods, implementing 1-day bucket widths proves to be the most effective approach, balancing data granularity with API constraints.

Reviewer: If a user still wants to collect 1m buckets, what is the max 'initial interval' that we recommend to them? This is especially important since the default bucket is already '1m' and hence it's the most likely scenario

Author: Yes, right.

For each day, total number of buckets = 24h * 60m
Now, each request gives at max 60 buckets by default.

So, to get 1 day worth of data with "1m" buckets, we have to make 24 requests. This is per datastream. And we have 8 data streams.

So, 24 * 8 = 192 requests in a short period.

So, OpenAI have not officially mentioned what their rate-limits are for this specific API. But still, if we see this: https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/rate-limits?tier=tier-one

We see that tier-1 subscribers (entry level), 500 requests per minute are allowed for their o1 model. I assume, for such usage api which is not critical and also not computational heavy, the rate should be higher. So, I assuming few days of historical data are fine with 1m buckets.

But, I have mentioned it clearly:

> When using a 1-minute bucket width, it's strongly recommended to set the "Initial interval" to a shorter duration - optimally 1 day - to ensure smooth performance

Optimally they should go with 1 day to be very safe. Also, I have set this as default.

For more than a day, they can try with daily buckets as well (`1d` instead of `1m`).

Should I rephrase this line?

Reviewer: Yes ok so as you said,  for customers accepting the default 1m bucket width the recommended max 'initial interval' is 1d to minimize risk of any potential rate limits. And for customers who want to go further back in history then the bucket width should be set to something longer  (1h or 1d). Only after providing the high level guidance (the TLDR) you could optional explain the math behind it.

Author: ok, I will do this.

Author: Done!

> Making 34,560 API calls in a brief period will likely trigger OpenAI's rate limits, resulting in API errors. When using a 1-minute bucket width, it's strongly recommended to set the "Initial interval" to a shorter duration - optimally 1 day - to ensure smooth performance. While our extensive testing demonstrates excellent results with a 6-month initial interval paired with a 1-day bucket width, the same level of success isn't achievable with 1-minute or 1-hour bucket widths due to OpenAI's API rate limitations. For optimal results when collecting historical data over extended periods, implementing 1-day bucket widths proves to be the most effective approach, balancing data granularity with API constraints.

Reviewer 2: `For optimal results when collecting historical data over extended periods, implementing 1-day bucket widths proves to be the most effective approach, balancing data granularity with API constraints.`

Consider rephrasing as follows:
=> 
To achieve the best results when gathering historical data over long periods, using 1-day bucket widths is the most effective method, ensuring a balance between data granularity and API limitations.

### Collection process

With default settings (Interval: 5m, Bucket width: 1m, Initial interval: 24h), the OpenAI integration follows this collection pattern:

1. Starts collection from (current_time - initial_interval)
2. Collects data up to (current_time - bucket_width)
3. Excludes incomplete current bucket for data accuracy and wait for bucket completion
4. Runs every 5 minutes by default (configurable)
5. From second collection, start from end of previous bucket timestamp and collect up to (current_time - bucket_width)

#### Example timeline

With default settings (Interval: 5m, Bucket width: 1m, Initial interval: 24h):

1. Integration starts at 10:00 AM
2. Collects data from 10:00 AM previous day
3. Continues until 9:59 AM current day

> 4. Next collection starts at 10:05 AM from the 10:00 AM bucket to 10:04 AM as the "Interval" is 5 minutes.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure about the numbered steps here. 
How about a full sentence:

> The integration starts at 10:00 AM, collects data from 10:00 AM the previous day, and continues until 9:59 AM the current day.
> The next collection starts at 10:05 AM from the 10:00 AM bucket to 10:04 AM as the "Interval" is 5 minutes.

Author: Yeah, sure.

## Collection behavior

> Among the configuration options for the OpenAI integration, two settings are particularly important to understand: "Initial interval" and "Bucket width".

Author: @daniela-elastic @alaudazzi Since both of you raised concerns about this line, I've rephrased it as follows. Does this work better?

Reviewer 2: Among the configuration options for the OpenAI integration, the following settings are particularly relevant: "Initial interval" and "Bucket width".

Author: done!

Example: For 100 API calls to a particular model per hour:
- `1m` buckets: Up to 100 documents
- `1h` buckets: 1 aggregated document
- `1d` buckets: 1 daily document

#### API request impact

"Bucket width" and "Initial interval" directly affect API request frequency. When using a 1-minute bucket width, it's strongly recommended to set the "Initial interval" to a shorter duration—optimally 1 day—to ensure smooth performance. While our extensive testing demonstrates excellent results with a 6-month initial interval paired with a 1-day bucket width, the same level of success isn't achievable with 1-minute or 1-hour bucket widths. This is because the OpenAI Usage API returns different bucket quantities based on width (60 buckets per call for 1-minute, 24 for 1-hour, and 7 for 1-day widths). To achieve the best results when gathering historical data over long periods, using 1-day bucket widths is the most effective method, ensuring a balance between data granularity and API limitations.

For optimal results with historical data, use 1-day bucket widths for long periods (15+ days), 1-hour for medium periods (1-15 days), and 1-minute only for the most recent 24 hours of data.

> Here's an example technical breakdown:

Reviewer 3: Giving this example is good for details. But is this TMI for a user in the README ?

Author: Should I remove the technical breakdown?

Author: Kept the math to explain how severe the number of requests are (also [see](https://github.com/elastic/integrations/pull/12838#discussion_r1971688294)); like any production server is likely to block 34k requests in a brief period from a single host.

Author: @muthu-mps also commented this: https://github.com/elastic/integrations/pull/12838#discussion_r1972985648

Should we remove? If most are agreeing technical breakdown is not required then we can remove or present it in a different way?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, IMO we should remove it. 
Moreover, it looks like these values are just for demonstration and these might change basis other variables.

Author: @muthu-mps As both of you are saying, perhaps let's go with consensus and remove the technical breakdown. Anyway, we have defined the buckets properly so they can also calculate if they want.

Author: Done; check now!
